KXI-59499 add compression ratios of NYSE TAQ data (#354)
KxSystems/docs: docs/kb/compression/compressionratio.md

---
title: File compression ratio – File compression - Knowledge Base – kdb+ and q documentation
description: Compression ratios of NYSE TAQ data
author: [Ferenc Bodon]
date: February 2025
---

# Compression ratio

> Compression ratio is one of the [three key metrics](../file-compression.md#performance) to evaluate a compression algorithm. It measures the relative reduction in size of data. This ratio expressed as a percentage, calculated by dividing the uncompressed size by the compressed size. For example, a value of 50 indicates that the data consumes half the disk space after compression. Lower numbers are better.

Reviewer: Small change because 50 could be 50% space saved or a 50% reduction in file size.
```suggestion
Compression ratio is one of the [three key metrics](../file-compression.md#performance) to evaluate a compression algorithm. It measures the relative reduction in size of data. This ratio expressed as a percentage, calculated by dividing the uncompressed size by the compressed size. For example, a value of 25 indicates that the data consumes a quarter of the disk space after compression. Lower numbers are better.
```

We compared compression ratios using a popular financial dataset from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)

The table-level results are presented below.

![png](../img/Compression_performance_comparison_17_0.png)

`zstd` performs nearly twice as well as `lz4` and `snappy` but is only marginally better than `gzip`.

> The following tables provide a column-level breakdown. The columns are ordered by entropy in decreasing order, meaning the top of the table likely contributes the most to the final disk space usage.

Reviewer: Data type size also contributes to on disk size.

> The following tables provide a column-level breakdown. The columns are ordered by entropy in decreasing order, meaning the top of the table likely contributes the most to the final disk space usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tables provide a column-level breakdown. The columns are ordered by [entropy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropy_(information_theory)) in decreasing order, meaning the top of the table likely contributes the most to the final disk space usage.
```
